## FYS-STK 4155 - Project 3
The project report ("FYSSTK4155project3_JN.pdf") may be found in this folder.
#### Folders
All tex files used to compile the project report may be found under "Tex".  All programs used to obtain the results described in the report is under "Code", while the results themselves may be found under "Results". "DataFiles" contains two articles, and the original data sets. 

### Abstract
This project aims to examine a classification approach to support vector machines (SVM) and feed forward neural networks (FFNN) in predicting wine quality. The data set used in training and testing the machine learning methods was a data set of 'Vinho Verde' white whine qualities presented by Cortez et al. in their article. As the results presented in said article indicated better prediction for the majority classes (medium quality wines), and worse prediction on very good or very bad wines, this project uses an adaptive synthetic sampling approach (ADASYN) with the intention of improving minority class prediction. The main findings of this project is that this appears to come at the cost of majority class prediction performance, which was reflected in a decreased accuracy score when ADASYN was applied, from 0.57 to 0.35 for the FFNN, and 0.57 to 0.52 for the SVM. These accuracy scores are somewhat lower than those presented by Cortez et al.  (FFNN: 59.1, SVM: 62.4),  indicating decreased performance when taking all predictions into account. Qualitative comparison between confusion matrices verified this, as well as increased minority class prediction quality when using ADASYN.
